Hi everyone and welcome
to brand new section
on authentication and authorization.
So personally this particular section
is very exciting and I personally
love this particular section.
Authentication and authorization
is a core concept
of any backend system, right?
And sometimes authentication
and authorization can be very
tricky or hard to understand.
But, but no worries.
In this particular section we
are going to go step by step.
We are going to understand
each and every bit of authentication
and authorization and how
in Node js we can build a secure
authentication workflow.
So in this particular video,
let's first understand the meaning
of these two words that how
authentication and authorization
are two different things.
Okay, so here we are talking
about authentication, which
is our first word, right?
That is authentication.
And secondly we have authorization.
Now knowing the difference between
these two things is very important.
Okay, so let's first understand
what is authentication, right?
Authentication basically
means that who are you?
In simple terms,
authentication means who are you?
Do I know you?
That is an authentication.
Okay, so which means like
for example, if you go on
to facebook.com, right?
If you are not logged in, you are
welcomed with a login screen.
Okay?
So whenever you open facebook.com
if you are not logged in, you are
welcomed with a login screen.
For example, if I open a new
tab and I go onto facebook.com
so what you will notice is
see, I am viewing this page.
That is a, login page.
Why am I seeing this page?
Because I am not authenticated.
The server is not able
to recognize me.
So that means let's say if we
have a server here, okay?
So let's say this is our server.
This is the Facebook
server, not my server.
So what is basically
happening here is the server
and I am a user, right?
So let's say here is the user.
So this user that is me, I
made a request to the server
and server says hey, I don't
know who are you, right?
It is not able to recognize me.
And that is the reason the response
from the server was a slash
login page, which is nice.
Now the thing is, this particular
thing means that this particular
user is not authenticated,
server is not able to recognize me.
On the other hand, let's say if I
am logged in, okay, so if I give
him my email and password and
somehow I am logged in, that
means that if I send a request to
the server in, instead of getting
a login screen, what I, what do I
get?
I get basically all my feed, okay?
I get feed posts, I get
all my friend requests, I
get all that data, right?
I am able to get my data
so that is what that means.
I am authenticated.
That means server is able
to recognize me that,
oh, this is Piyush Garg.
And based on who am I Based on like
my id, like, let's say Piyushkar.
It is sending me the post
that is relevant to me.
It is sending me the friend
request that are being sent to me.
It is sending me my messages,
my messenger, my
groups, everything, mine.
Okay, so this is
basically authentication.
That means whether you are logged
in or not, if you are authenticated,
okay, you are an authentic person.
I know who are you?
But what is this?
Authorization.
So authorization is basically
the next step of the authentication.
Authorization says that it.
It assumes that you are
already authenticated.
But are you authorized?
Are you authorized?
Okay.
To this resource?
Okay, now what does this mean?
I'll just give you an example
and everything will be super clear.
Let's say this is your college.
Okay?
This is your XYZ college.
Okay, that's good.
Now, first thing is,
can a random person.
Okay, let's say here
is a random person.
Can a random person enter,
the campus of the college?
No.
Right?
Why?
Because there is a security
guard sitting here.
So let's say that this
is your security guard.
So this security guard, whenever
you try to enter, you are not.
You are not allowed to enter because
he doesn't recognize you, right?
You are just a random person.
You have no ID card.
You don't have any kind of thing,
so you are not allowed.
That means you are not authenticated.
So your authentication failed.
But let's say you had.
You have taken the admission
in this college.
And in return, college has given
you something known as an ID card.
So whenever you go, you
submit your fees, right?
You pay your fees
and you get admission.
You are given an ID card.
Nice.
Now, this ID card, which is
issued by this XYZ college.
Now you take this ID card.
Now you as a person, go back
to the security guard.
Show your ID card.
Now you are authenticated.
Should this security, guard allow you
to enter the college?
Yes.
Why?
Because you were authenticated.
Nice.
Now, let's say this is print.
This is your classroom.
Okay?
So let's say this is your classroom.
So I'll just draw it in this way.
And, let's say this is
some internal staff room.
Okay?
So let's say this is the staff room
or principal's room or some kind
of internal room in your college.
So I'll just make it green.
Now, based on this ID card
and you are a student, can you Enter
this particular class?
Yes, you can enter.
Because that particular class
is meant for you, right?
That's a class.
You can enter it.
But with this ID card and this thing,
can you enter in the staff room?
No, right?
Why?
Because again, there will be one
more security guard, let's say
in front of the staff room.
But to enter here,
to enter here, you are not allowed.
Why?
Because your ID card says
that you are a student.
And as a student, you are not allowed
to enter the staff room.
But on the other hand, let's
say one more teacher is there.
Okay?
Now, teachers also
have their ID cards.
But this ID card holds
an authority of a teacher.
Okay, Of a teacher.
Now first of all, tell me,
should this particular person be
allowed inside the campus?
Yes, because they have an ID
card, they are authenticated.
Now, when they come here, this
person will check that, Hey, I
know that you are already a part
of this college, because if you
were not a part of this college,
anyway, you cannot bypass this
gate.
But now I have to check whether
you have authority
to enter the staff room or not.
So it will.
So this security guard will check.
Oh, I see that you are a teacher.
Your role is a teacher.
So I think you are allowed.
So this particular teacher
can go into the staff room,
but not this ID card.
So this is basically
authorization, okay?
That are you authorized
to this particular resource?
So authorized is the word here.
Okay?
So that means for authorization,
you have to be authenticated.
This is simple, right?
Because for authorization to work,
you should be authenticated.
Authenticated means
you are logged in.
The server knows who are you, right?
You have some kind of ID card.
But authorization means.
Authorization basically
means are you allowed to access
that resource or not?
Got it.
Now if I log into Facebook,
I am authenticated.
But can I access your friends?
Can I accept a friend
request that is sent to you?
Of course not, because I don't have
authenticity, I don't have
that authorization to accept
a friend request or on your behalf.
Got it?
Now can I change your password?
No, because I am not
authorized to do it.
So that is, your authorization.
So I hope the difference
between authentication
and authorization is clear.
So first step will be
authentication, understanding
authentication and everything.
Authorization is very
simple, to be honest.
Once authentication is clear,
authorization is nothing.
It's just a check.
Okay?
The main challenge, the main
security comes in the authentication
which we are going to cover
in the upcoming videos.